RUMM-3404 Create MIGRATION.md (#1361)
DataDog/dd-sdk-ios: MIGRATION.md

# Migration from 1.x to 2.0

This document describes the main changes introduced in SDK `2.0` compared to `1.x`.

### Product Modules 

All the products (RUM, Trace, Logs, etc.) are now extracted into different modules. That allows you to integrate only what is needed into your application.

In comparison with version 1.x where all products were in a single module `Datadog`, now you need to adopt the following libraries instead:

- `DatadogCore`
- `DatadogLogs`
- `DatadogTrace`
- `DatadogRUM`
- `DatadogWebViewTracking`

These come in addition to the existing `DatadogCrashReporting` and `DatadogObjc`.

**NOTE**: In case of Crash Reporting and WebView Tracking usage it's also needed to add RUM and/or Logs modules to be able to report events to RUM and/or Logs respectively.

> The `2.0` version of the iOS SDK also expose unified API layouts and naming between iOS and Android SDKs and with other Datadog products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `2.0` version of the iOS SDK also exposes unified API layouts and naming between iOS and Android SDKs and with other Datadog products.
```

### Support for multiple SDK instances

Previously Datadog SDK implemented a singleton and only one SDK instance could exist in the application process. This created obstacles for use-cases like the usage of the SDK by 3rd party libraries.

With version 2.0 we addressed this limitation:

* Now it is possible to initialize multiple instances of the SDK, associating them with a name.

> * Many methods of the SDK can optionally take a SDK instance as an argument. If not provided, the call will be associated with the default (nameless) SDK instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Many methods of the SDK can optionally take an SDK instance as an argument. If not provided, the call will be associated with the default (nameless) SDK instance.
```

Here is an example illustrating the typical usage in case of default instance vs named instance:

```swift
// default instance
Datadog.initialize(
    with: configuration, 
    trackingConsent: trackingConsent
)

Datadog.setUserInfo(...)

// named instance
let core = Datadog.initialize(
    with: configuration, 
    trackingConsent: trackingConsent, 
    instanceName: "myInstance"
)

Datadog.setUserInfo(..., in: core)
```

**NOTE**: SDK instance name should have the same value between application runs. Storage paths for SDK events are associated with it.

You can retrieve the named SDK instance by calling `Datadog.sdkInstance(named: "<name>")` and use the `Datadog.isInitialized(instanceName: "<name>")` method to check if the particular SDK instance is initialized.

## SDK Configuration Changes

> Better SDK granularity is achieved with the extraction of different products into independent modules, therefor all product-specific configurations have been moved to their dedicated modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Better SDK granularity is achieved with the extraction of different products into independent modules, therefore all product-specific configurations have been moved to their dedicated modules.
```

```

API changes:

|`1.x`|`2.0`|
|---|---|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.setLogEventMapper`|`Logs.Configuration.eventMapper`|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.set(loggingSamplingRate:)`|`Logs.Configuration.eventMapper`|
|`Logger.Builder.set(serviceName:)`|`Logger.Configuration.service`|
|`Logger.Builder.set(loggerName:)`|`Logger.Configuration.name`|
|`Logger.Builder.sendNetworkInfo`|`Logger.Configuration.networkInfoEnabled`|
|`Logger.Builder.bundleWithRUM`|`Logger.Configuration.bundleWithRumEnabled`|
|`Logger.Builder.bundleWithTrace`|`Logger.Configuration.bundleWithTraceEnabled`|
|`Logger.Builder.sendLogsToDatadog = false`|`Logger.Configuration.remoteSampleRate = 0`|
|`Logger.Builder.set(datadogReportingThreshold:)`|`Logger.Configuration.remoteLogThreshold`|
|`Logger.Builder.printLogsToConsole(:, usingFormat)`|`Logger.Configuration.consoleLogFormat`|

## APM Trace Product Changes

All the classes related to Trace are now strictly in the `DatadogTrace` module. You will first need to enable the product:

```swift
import DatadogTrace

Trace.enable()
```

Then, you can access the shared Tracer instance:

```swift
import DatadogTrace

let tracer = Tracer.shared()
```

API changes:

> |`1.x`|`2.0`|

Reviewer 2: nice idea of having changes as table

Author: I've also move the `Support for multiple SDK instances` section to the end of the document to not confuse users.

Reviewer: @0xnm you could update the Android guide to make the experience consistent.

Reviewer 2: done.

# Migration from 1.x to 2.0

This document describes the main changes introduced in SDK `2.0` compared to `1.x`.

### Product Modules 

> All the products (RUM, Trace, Logs, etc.) are now extracted into different modules. That allows you to integrate only what is needed into your application.

Reviewer: we should include package managers code snippets here somewhere. Places like https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/log_collection/ios/?tab=cocoapods will not be updated until we reach GA and to make migration smoother (copy-paste basically), we should add snippets each package.

# Migration from 1.x to 2.0

This document describes the main changes introduced in SDK `2.0` compared to `1.x`.

### Product Modules 

> All the products (RUM, Trace, Logs, etc.) are now extracted into different modules. That allows you to integrate only what is needed into your application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All relevant products (RUM, Trace, Logs, etc.) are now extracted into different modules. That allows you to integrate only what is needed into your application.
```

> In comparison with version 1.x where all products were in a single module `Datadog`, now you need to adopt the following libraries instead:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whereas all products in version 1.x were contained in the single module, `Datadog`, you now need to adopt the following libraries:
```

                .product(name: "DatadogLogs", package: "dd-sdk-ios"),
                .product(name: "DatadogTrace", package: "dd-sdk-ios"),
                .product(name: "DatadogRUM", package: "dd-sdk-ios"),
                .product(name: "DatadogCrashReporting", package: "dd-sdk-ios"),
                .product(name: "DatadogWebViewTracking", package: "dd-sdk-ios"),
            ]
        ),
    ]
)
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>CocoaPods</summary>

  ```ruby
  pod 'DatadogCore'
  pod 'DatadogLogs'
  pod 'DatadogTrace'
  pod 'DatadogRUM'
  pod 'DatadogCrashReporting'
  pod 'DatadogWebViewTracking'
  pod 'DatadogObjc'
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Carthage</summary>

  The `Cartfile` stays the same: 
  ```
  github "DataDog/dd-sdk-ios"
  ```

  In Xcode, you **must** link the following frameworks:
  ```
  DatadogInternal.xcframework
  DatadogCore.xcframework
  ```

  Then you can select the modules you want to use:
  ```
  DatadogLogs.xcframework
  DatadogTrace.xcframework
  DatadogRUM.xcframework
  DatadogCrashReporting.xcframework + CrashReporter.xcframework
  DatadogWebViewTracking.xcframework
  DatadogObjc.xcframework
  ```
</details>

> **NOTE**: In case of Crash Reporting and WebView Tracking usage it's also needed to add RUM and/or Logs modules to be able to report events to RUM and/or Logs respectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note**: In case of Crash Reporting and WebView Tracking usage it's also needed to add RUM and/or Logs modules to be able to report events to RUM and/or Logs respectively.
```

    trackingConsent: .granted,
    configuration: Datadog.Configuration
        .builderUsing(
            clientToken: "<client token>",
            environment: "<environment>"
        )
        .set(serviceName: "<service name>")
        .build()
```
**V2 Initialization**
```swift
import DatadogCore

Datadog.initialize(
    with: Datadog.Configuration(
        clientToken: "<client token>",
        env: "<environment>",
        service: "<service name>"
    ), 
    trackingConsent: .granted
)
```

API changes:

|`1.x`|`2.0`|
|---|---|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.set(serviceName:)`|`Datadog.Configuration.service`|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.set(batchSize:)`|`Datadog.Configuration.batchSize`|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.set(uploadFrequency:)`|`Datadog.Configuration.uploadFrequency`|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.set(proxyConfiguration:)`|`Datadog.Configuration.proxyConfiguration`|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.set(encryption:)`|`Datadog.Configuration.encryption`|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.set(serverDateProvider:)`|`Datadog.Configuration.serverDateProvider`|
|`Datadog.AppContext(mainBundle:)`|`Datadog.Configuration.bundle`|

## Logs Product Changes

> All the classes related to Logs are now strictly in the `DatadogLogs` module. You will first need to enable the product:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the classes related to Logs are now strictly in the `DatadogLogs` module. You first need to enable the product:
```

```swift
import DatadogLogs

Logs.enable(with: Logs.Configuration(...))
```

Then, you can create a logger instance:

```swift
import DatadogLogs

let logger = Logger.create(
    with: Logger.Configuration(name: "<logger name>")
)
```

API changes:

|`1.x`|`2.0`|
|---|---|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.setLogEventMapper(_:)`|`Logs.Configuration.eventMapper`|
|`Datadog.Configuration.Builder.set(loggingSamplingRate:)`|`Logs.Configuration.eventMapper`|
|`Logger.Builder.set(serviceName:)`|`Logger.Configuration.service`|
|`Logger.Builder.set(loggerName:)`|`Logger.Configuration.name`|
|`Logger.Builder.sendNetworkInfo(_:)`|`Logger.Configuration.networkInfoEnabled`|
|`Logger.Builder.bundleWithRUM(_:)`|`Logger.Configuration.bundleWithRumEnabled`|
|`Logger.Builder.bundleWithTrace(_:)`|`Logger.Configuration.bundleWithTraceEnabled`|
|`Logger.Builder.sendLogsToDatadog(false)`|`Logger.Configuration.remoteSampleRate = 0`|
|`Logger.Builder.set(datadogReportingThreshold:)`|`Logger.Configuration.remoteLogThreshold`|
|`Logger.Builder.printLogsToConsole(_:, usingFormat)`|`Logger.Configuration.consoleLogFormat`|

## APM Trace Product Changes

> All the classes related to Trace are now strictly in the `DatadogTrace` module. You will first need to enable the product:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All the classes related to Trace are now strictly in the `DatadogTrace` module. You first need to enable the product:
```

WebViewTracking.enable(webView: webView)
```

|`1.x`|`2.0`|
|---|---|
|`WKUserContentController.startTrackingDatadogEvents`|`WebViewTracking.enable(webView:)`|

## Using a Secondary Instance of the SDK

Previously Datadog SDK implemented a singleton and only one SDK instance could exist in the application process. This created obstacles for use-cases like the usage of the SDK by 3rd party libraries.

With version 2.0 we addressed this limitation:

* Now it is possible to initialize multiple instances of the SDK, associating them with a name.
* Many methods of the SDK can optionally take a SDK instance as an argument. If not provided, the call will be associated with the default (nameless) SDK instance.

Here is an example illustrating how to initialize a secondary core instance and enable products:

```swift
import DatadogCore
import DatadogRUM
import DatadogLogs
import DatadogTrace

let core = Datadog.initialize(
    with: configuration, 
    trackingConsent: trackingConsent, 
    instanceName: "my-instance"
)

RUM.enable(
    with: RUM.Configuration(applicationID: "<RUM Application ID>"),
    in: core
)

Logs.enable(in: core)

Trace.enable(in: core)
```

> **NOTE**: SDK instance name should have the same value between application runs. Storage paths for SDK events are associated with it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note**: The SDK instance name should have the same value between application runs. Storage paths for SDK events are associated with it.
```
